*: add SQL mode and config files, update slow query and charset (#1462)
pingcap/docs: dev/reference/sql/sql-mode.md

﻿---
title: SQL Mode
summary: Learn SQL mode.
category: reference
---

# SQL Mode

TiDB servers operate in different SQL modes and apply these modes differently for different clients. SQL mode defines the SQL syntaxes that TiDB supports and the type of data validation check to perform.

+ Before TiDB is started, modify the `--sql-mode="modes"` configuration item to set SQL mode.

+ After TiDB is started, modify `SET [ SESSION | GLOBAL ] sql_mode='modes'` to set SQL mode.

Ensure that you have `SUPER` privilege when setting SQL mode at `GLOBAL` level. Your setting only affects the connections established afterwards, and the old connections are not affected. Changes to SQL mode at `SESSION` level only affect the current client.

`Modes` are a series of different modes separated by commas (','). You can use the `SELECT @@sql_mode` statement to check the current SQL mode. The default value of SQL mode: `ONLY_FULL_GROUP_BY, STRICT_TRANS_TABLES, NO_ZERO_IN_DATE, NO_ZERO_DATE, ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO, NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER, NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION`.

> ## Important `sql_mode` value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Important `sql_mode` values
```

> * `ANSI`: In this mode, data is checked. If data does not comply with the defined type or length, the data type is adjusted or trimmed and a `warning` is returned.

Reviewer: "符合标准 SQL" is not translated

> * `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES`: In this strict mode, data is strictly checked. When any incorrect data is inserted into a table, an error is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `STRICT_TRANS_TABLES`: Strict mode, where data is strictly checked. When any incorrect data is inserted into a table, an error is returned.
```

* `TRADITIONAL`: In this mode, TiDB behaves like a "traditional" SQL database system. An error instead of a warning is returned when any incorrect value is inserted into a column. Then, the `INSERT` or `UPDATE` statement is immediately stopped.

## SQL mode table

| Name | Description |

> | --- | --- |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| :--- | :--- |
```

| `NO_ZERO_DATE` | Does not use '0000-00-00' as a legal date in strict mode. You can still insert a zero date with the `IGNORE` option. In non-strict mode, this date is accepted but a warning is returned. (full support)|
| `ALLOW_INVALID_DATES` | In this mode, the system does not check the validity of all dates. It only checks the month value ranging from `1` to `12` and the date value ranging from `1` to `31`. The mode only applies to `DATE` and `DATATIME` columns. All `TIMESTAMP` columns need a full validity check. (full support) |
| `ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO` | If this mode is enabled, the system returns an error when handling division by `0` in data-change operations (`INSERT` or `UPDATE`). <br> If this mode is not enabled, the system returns a warning and `NULL` is used instead. (full support) |
| `NO_AUTO_CREATE_USER` | Prevents `GRANT` from automatically creating new users, except for the specified password (full support)|

> | `HIGH_NOT_PRECEDENCE` | The priority of `NOT` operator is expression. For example: `NOT a BETWEEN b AND c` is parsed as `NOT (a BETWEEN b AND c)`. In some older versions of MySQL, this expression is interpreted as `(NOT a) BETWEEN b AND c`. (full support) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `HIGH_NOT_PRECEDENCE` | The precedence of the NOT operator is such that expressions such as `NOT a BETWEEN b AND c` are parsed as `NOT (a BETWEEN b AND c)`. In some older versions of MySQL, this expression is parsed as `(NOT a) BETWEEN b AND c`. (full support) |
```

Reviewer: https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/sql-mode.html

Reviewer: Please refer to the original MySQL version and compare with your translations

> | `NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION` | Prevents the automatic replacement of storage engines if the required storage engine is disabled or not compiled. (syntax support only)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION` | Prevents automatic replacement of storage engines if the required storage engine is disabled or not compiled. (syntax support only)|
```
